Thank you for downloading or streaming this message from Immanuel Church.
We are one church with multiple locations, and we believe God wants to bless you right where you are.
In a few moments, you're going to hear some practical teaching from God's Word that I believe will be inspiring and relevant to your life.
First, though, if you haven't yet experienced Immanuel Live, we encourage you to go to our website, eclife.org, to check out our service times and locations so that you can experience Immanuel in person
or through our online campus.
If this message blesses you and you'd like to support the ministry financially, again, you can go to eclive.org and click on the giving tab and choose online campus at your campus.
Thanks again for joining us today, and we hope this message will be an encouragement to you on your spiritual journey.
Hey, you heard of the greats.
Oxy clean, sham while, slap chop, shake, wade, brush buddies, potty putter, and easy butter.
But you haven't heard of this.
Mr. Upgrade himself here.
Have you ever felt like this when you should really feel like this?
Have you ever found yourself settling for this when really you should be digging into something like this?
Well, guess what?
I got a solution for you.
After watching my program, you'll find yourself prettier, funnier, smarter, and more popular.
Basically everything that matters.
And you're not gonna get these results from anybody but me.
Trust me, I upgraded myself.
Now, sit back and enjoy these very real customer stories.
Last year, I wore this terrible wig because of my bones.
Even though I made it stick this year, I'm choosing to upgrade.
I mean, look at me now.
You should have seen me before I upgraded.
Now, I can't believe I am so popular.
And what's that word?
Too fast, order upgrade now and I'll not only include the 30 day program volumes one through seven, but get this.
I'm also gonna include upgrade, Pet Edition.
Your dog's gonna love this, your cat's gonna love this, get the whole family involved.
Order today while supplies last and you'll receive my entire upgrade program plus the Pet Edition for only 12 easy payments of 1995.
You're going to want to call 1-800-UPGRADE.
This is the deal of a lifetime.
You're going to want to call right now.
Well, good morning, Emmanuel.
How are you feeling today?
What a joy to be with you.
Welcome to all of our locations, our band to campus, our Franklin campus, our Garfield Park campus.
If you're watching online right now or at the Theodore House or at the Johnson County Work Release, welcome to all of our locations and everyone here at Greenwood one more time.
Welcome and good morning.
If you are brand new with us here today at any of our locations watching for the first time online,
We are wrapping up a four-week series today called Upgrade, and it's the series we do sort of a similar series like this every year at the beginning of the year.
Actually, this time it's the beginning of a new decade.
How about that?
We heard about that from Pastor Cody, the power of a decade a few weeks ago.
And really we've been talking about just taking our lives to the next level and upgrade is basically trading in an old model, getting a new model, improving something in your life.
And it's great to talk about that around this time of the year because it's a natural time to set
goals and resolutions and try to improve things in our life, whether that's your finances or your relationship with God or your marriage if you're married or your relationship with your parents if you're a student.
And so it's a good time to talk about improving things in our lives.
So what we've been doing in this series is looking back
at the greatest story of an upgrade in the Bible, which is the story of the Israelites, leaving Egypt 400 years of slavery.
God sends Moses to deliver them out of the slavery from Egypt and to take them into the promised land, the greatest story of an upgrade in the Bible.
And what we've been trying to do is pull some truths from that story and apply them to our life.
Because I do believe that that story in the Bible
is a metaphor for our lives.
Like Jesus came to give us life, abundant life.
The prophet Isaiah said, I have plans for you not to harm you but to give you a hope in a future.
So he wants to take our lives to the next level.
He wants what is good and right for us.
So we're trying to take some of these principles like extreme clarity.
We talked about that in week one.
You got to know what the upgrade looks like.
We talked about pushing your limits or going past your capacity or what you think your capacity is in week two.
So God tells Joshua, be strong and courageous because you're going to have to do things
you've never done before.
And then last week, we talked about the importance of obedience.
Doing what God says, like obedience leads to abundance.
If you missed any of those talks, you can go back to our YouTube channel and check those out.
Emmanuel Naha is a YouTube channel so excited about that.
Click subscribe.
Like it.
Thank you.
Be awesome.
shameless plug right there for our YouTube channel.
But anyway, so today's week four, last week of the series, we're gonna look back into the story, we're gonna draw a principle, and then we're gonna try to apply it to our lives.
Let me start with a story real quick about something that happened to me this week.
I was at Starbucks doing a little studying for this talk, and it was about five o'clock, so I was wrapping up, I was heading home, and if you know the area here, if you're watching from some other part of the country, or another country altogether, you won't know what I'm talking about, but there's this coffee shop here in town, it's on 135, which is kind of the
main strip here in Greenwood.
And in order for me to get home from Starbucks, I have to turn left onto 135, which is a two-lane road.
And so I'm there waiting for the light.
I've got my turn clicker on, signal on.
And across the street, there's traffic coming from the other side of the parking lot.
There's Aldi there, so you know what I'm talking about here, 135.
There's a Culver's.
And so there's a line of traffic.
And I'm just waiting patiently.
Now, I'll give you a little context about my driving background.
I took driver's ed in New York City.
I learned to drive at 16 years old in New York City, which is very different experience from driving in Greenwood.
And so in New York, what happens is if you hesitate for a second, you're in trouble.
Okay?
You know anybody driven in New York?
Like you get yelled at, you get honked at.
Like if you hesitate, as soon as that thing turns,
You're going.
So that's kind of how I drive.
And now people in Greenwood here struggle.
They hesitate.
They stop signs roundabouts.
It's just very confusing to people in Greenwood.
So there's a lot of hesitation.
So a lot of times I just go because people wait.
And now when you're turning left onto a two-lane street,
In New York, the rules are is that you can go, you have the right away, because it's a two-lane street, so if someone's trying to turn right and you're trying to turn left, you both can turn at the same time.
Here in Indiana, the rules are all goofed up.
It's not the case.
You're supposed to give the person turning right the right away, which I think is wrong, so maybe we can change it.
If there's anybody here that changes those rules, please change that.
Anyway, but I knew she had the right away, and so I'm waiting, and she hesitated.
Now it's a two-lane road, so there's plenty of room for me to turn left for her to turn right, and everybody goes home, and everybody's happy, right?
And that's what I thought.
So I hit the gas because she hesitates and turned into my lane.
And so then later on, a second or two later, she turns right and everybody's happy, right?
Not so much.
She pulls up next to me and drives a little bit faster than a young girl, probably in her early 20s.
And as she passes me, doesn't even look at me.
I'm looking at her just like, hey, you know, whatever.
And she's like, burp.
She gives me the number one sign.
Just right.
And something triggered inside of me, like you're in your early 20s.
I'm now in my early 40s.
I'm like a father figure to you.
Do you hate potty melt?
I had this feeling of like, oh, where's the respect here?
I'm one of your elders.
You just don't flip random people off on the road, even if it's their fault.
It was my fault.
But that's not the point.
You don't flip people off on the road.
And so I literally got a flash of warmth behind my eyeballs.
That's what happens.
It's like the heat.
I was like, my head got hot.
And I'm like, so I got angry.
And I wanted to give her the dad business.
Like, man, you don't do that.
So I pull up.
And sure enough, we hit the red light at Smith Valley in 135.
And I'm right next to her.
I'm looking at her.
And I'm like, I'm wanting to put the window down and give her the dad talk.
Like, do you know what you, what if I was a psycho?
You don't do that to people on the road.
And by the way, I didn't do anything wrong.
And I just wanted to give her the business.
And right as soon as I get ready to put my finger on the window to come down, I had this thought popped into my mind.
I don't know if it was from God, I don't know where it came from.
But I heard this voice and said, you're probably her pastor.
And small town,
Everybody knows everybody.
Shut up, leave the window up and just drive.
And so, if you were that girl and you're here today, don't do that next time.
I want to talk to you today about your thoughts.
I want to talk to you today about the stuff going on between your ears.
I believe with all my heart that an upgrade is going to require you and I to think better.
We're going to have to have some better thoughts.
Thoughts are powerful things.
If we look back into the story in Joshua chapter 1, God tells Joshua.
He gives them clarity.
He tells them to be strong and courageous.
He tells them to obey the law.
We looked at verse 5, 6, 7.
Now we're going to look at verse 8.
Look what God tells Joshua.
This book of the law, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, the first five books of the Bible.
This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth.
I want you to talk about it constantly to everybody, to your family, to your children, to your grandchildren.
But you shall meditate in it day and night, in the morning, in the evening, in the afternoon, and before you go to bed.
I want you to meditate on this book day and night.
Why?
so that you can be careful to do according to all that is written in it.
How can you follow it if you don't know what it says?
All right, talked about obedience last week.
Meditate on the scripture of the book, the reveal, the revelation that God has given to Moses so that you can do it.
And if you do that, watch what happens.
Then you will make your way, everybody say it with me, prosperous.
Come on together, prosperous.
And then you will have say it together, good success, prosperity and success.
Not in the American version of being rich and famous and being able to buy cars and houses, not that kind of prosperity and success.
What kind of prosperity and success?
In crossing the Jordan River and taking the Promised Land in the upgrade that I have planned for your life.
Now this is not what I would have told Joshua if I were God.
You know what I would have told Joshua?
Joshua, you are?
entire crew, 1.5 million total, probably half of those were men.
They've never fought a battle.
They don't know how to use a sword.
Make swords, make armor, make helmets, make armor for their thighs and for their shins.
and train them to fight battles.
Because you're going, the Promised Land is filled with occupied territory.
People that are battle tested, battle ready.
Some of the cities are fortified with walls.
You have got to prepare your army.
That's what I would have told Joshua if I were God.
God says nothing of the sort.
He says, here's what I want you to do.
You know how you're gonna be prosperous?
You know how you're gonna have good success in taking the Promised Land?
You're going to get your thoughts straightened out.
And you're going to do that by meditating.
Now, what's interesting about this word meditate, it's an interesting word.
It's this Hebrew word hagah.
Now, if I were a Jewish man, a ascetic Jewish man, I would say it like this, hagah.
You want to say that?
What's made kind of fun?
It's kind of like what you do before you spit.
You want to do it together?
Let's do it together, ready?
Hagah.
I think I just spit on you down front here.
Sorry, sorry.
It's such a fascinating word because it actually means to groan or to growl.
Let's say, what are you talking about?
Well, the prophet Isaiah used it in Isaiah 31, 5, you can look at it when you get home.
He says, as a lion, growls over its prey.
As a lion, meditates over its gazelle that it is just hunted down and now is eating.
It's like,
brings about this image, it looks like this.
I know it's kind of gross.
So if you don't like blood, don't look.
But this, when a lion would catch a zebra or a gazelle, it's totally and completely enamored, focused, chewing, swallowing, taking the animal in, ingesting it, that's what the word meditate means.
How interesting.
Okay, you can take this off.
I don't want, okay, you did good, good.
It means to completely take your mind and focus it in on one idea.
How different that is from what maybe some of us have come to understand meditation to be because of Eastern religions and that the thought about meditation there is somebody maybe who sits down for 30 minutes a day and kind of crosses their legs and hums.
And the idea is to empty your mind of everything.
Like meditation from an Eastern philosophy religious kind of perspective is just like an emptying out of your mind.
And biblical meditation is completely different.
Biblical meditation, Christian meditation is actually a filling up of your mind and focusing in your mind completely on a thought as a lion would focus on its prey and now it's devouring its meal.
Some of you still might not understand, or maybe you're thinking, well, I've never done that before.
Oh, oh, I promise you you have.
I promise you.
And here's how I know.
Because worry is meditation in the wrong direction.
Think about worry.
What is worry?
Isn't worry when parents, when we worry over our kids or adults, when we worry about finances or we worry about our
Husband, were we worried about our spouse?
Were we worried about life?
Were we worried about our health?
Were we worried about retirement?
Isn't it because you are fixing your mind on an idea and you're hanging onto it and you're hanging over it, mulling over the pot?
What might happen?
How are we gonna pay for college?
How are we gonna retire?
Is this disease gonna go away?
And all of a sudden, all of these things like anxiety rise up inside of us.
Oh, I promise you, you have meditated before.
Worry is the negative form of meditation.
What if you could turn that around and completely focus in your mind on God's truth, on God's commands, on God's character?
That's what God tells Joshua.
If you will meditate day and night, you will be prosperous and you will have good success.
One of my favorite Psalms is Psalm one.
And it mirrors, Jeremiah Joshua, one verse seven.
It says, blessed is the man that does not walk in the council of the wicked nor stand in the way of sinners nor sit in the seat of scoffers.
Verse two, but his delight, her delight, man or woman, is in the law of the Lord.
And on his law, he meditates how often?
Day and night, morning and evening, afternoon and before bed.
This person is like a tree planted next to streams of water, which yields its fruit in season, and its leaf does not wither.
And whatsoever he or she does, uh-oh, he prospers, she prospers.
Same exact idea.
as Joshua 1 verse 8.
Now, when I hear truth like that, mirrored, especially when I hear it once or twice or three times in the Bible, I take notice, like, okay, God, what are you saying?
What does that mean?
How does it work?
It's one thing to hear God say, meditate on my word day and night, and it's going to lead to an upgrade.
But how does that actually work?
I need to know.
How about you?
Here's how it works.
The reason it works that way is because
The quality of your life, the quality of my life is really determined by the quality of our thoughts.
What's going on inside of our minds?
There's a guy named Marcus Aurelius.
He was probably the most famous Roman emperor.
He also became a stoic philosopher, and he wrote a book called Meditations, which is pretty fascinating.
It was never meant to be published.
It was his personal journal.
And he said this, it means life.
is what his thoughts make it.
You and I create the quality of our life with our mind.
James Allen is an author who wrote in the late 1800s, early 1900s.
This little book was published in 1903.
He's known, not by many, but to be the father of the modern day personal development industry, where Tony Robbins came out of and Jim's Roan and Zig Zigo and all those guys.
This is his most famous book, As a Man Thinketh.
This is what,
James Allen said, you are today where your thoughts have brought you and you'll be tomorrow where your thoughts take you.
The quality of our life is determined by the quality of our thoughts.
Some of you might push back and say, well, wait a second.
I thought the quality of our life is determined by the quality of our actions or what type of actions we take.
True, very, very true.
We have to take action in order to change our life, but what proceeds action?
Isn't it a thought?
I mean, some of you are business owners.
Wasn't it the thought that I can never work for another person again, I will not have a boss?
Wasn't it that thought, that frustration of having someone over you telling you what to do, how much you can make, how many hours you have to work, that caused you to say, I'm gonna start my own business.
And you did it, you took action, you changed your life, but it first, first came the thought.
Wasn't it the thought for some of you who were divorced, about half of us are divorced?
Wasn't it the thought of, I cannot live with him one more day.
I cannot live with her anymore.
Wasn't it that thought and the emotions that followed that caused you to file for divorce?
So we take action and actions change our lives, but what comes before action are thought processes in our mind.
Many of you are Christ followers.
You're watching today.
You're here.
You've put your faith in Christ.
Wasn't it the thought that God loves you and Christ died for you on the cross and he came back to life three days later so that you can be reconciled to the Father and not pay for your own sins?
Wasn't it that thought that caused you to reach out to him in faith?
Yes or no?
We first hear things.
We first have ideas and thoughts and then we act or take action.
Our lives are shaped by our minds.
I know there's more objections to this.
I know some people, you're probably thinking, wait a second, the quality of my life is not determined by the quality of my thoughts.
I'll tell you why my life is what it is today.
It's because of what's happened to me.
It's because of my circumstances.
It's because my parents got divorced and my father was an alcoholic and he abused me when I was little.
It's because my boss keeps overlooking me for a raise.
I don't make that much money.
I didn't go to college.
I'm not tall enough.
I'm not smart enough.
I'm not pretty enough.
And we tend to blame our circumstances for the quality of our life.
Anybody?
But it's not true.
It feels right.
And you might even have a case and you might even get a crowd of people to listen to you and go, oh, that's so sad.
You're right.
Your father died from cancer and your mother, this and your dad left and everybody's got a story.
But here's why we can't do that.
And here's why it's not true that our circumstances determine the quality of our lives because there are people out there that have it worse off than you.
They have gone through
worse things than you, and they have learned to thrive.
How?
How is their life soaring?
And their story is worse than yours.
The mental game.
See, it's not the circumstances that determine the quality of our life.
It's how we think about the circumstances that determines the quality of our life.
Hey, that's some good preaching right there, do you think?
Amen.
It's not popular.
And it teaches personal responsibility.
Oh, so it's up to me.
It's up to my thought.
Yeah.
But man, that will change your life.
It's a mental game.
The battlefield is one or lost right between our ears.
But still, that doesn't really answer the question of how it works.
It's one thing to say, you know, the quality of your life is determined by the quality of your thoughts.
Okay, that's good.
But how?
Let's get into it.
You want to dive into it?
Follow me real quick.
We first think then we feel
emotions are powerful, we are emotional creatures, and then we take action.
We think, we feel, and we act as how God made us.
Now, sometimes we feel we think and we act, but even if we feel we think and we act, even if it's reversed, the actions always come last.
Now, I think that feelings come before thoughts
on rare occasions, like when you're sitting down and you're on a 21 day fast and your stomach growls and you all of a sudden think of pizza.
Okay, feelings, thoughts, okay?
Most of the time, it's thoughts and feelings.
Now, follow me here, because this is a little bit cumbersome and it's a little bit difficult.
How does this work?
How do our thoughts shape the quality of our life?
Well, here's how it works.
When we think of thought, it puts
Options before what we would call our will now our will is the center of our soul It's the place where we take our actions We do this or we do that where we don't do this or we don't do that or we say this or we don't say this we write an email We don't write any mail.
We go to get lunch.
We don't go get lunch.
Whatever we do.
That's our will
Now our will can only act from options, and it's the mind that puts the options before the will.
Dallas Willard in his book, The Renovation of the Heart, which is such a fantastic book on spiritual growth.
If you want to put on the character of Christ and become like Christ, absolutely essential reading.
He talks about it like this.
He says, in the same way that our senses, our eyes and our ears, in our same way that our physical senses tell us what the landscape is,
You know, what we see, if there's a road in front of us, if there's a hallway in front of us, then we can navigate properly.
Our senses help us to navigate the landscape.
And the same way that our senses help us navigate the landscape, our thoughts present before us sort of a lifescape.
In the book, he says it like this.
Within this thought lifescape, we make decisions that determine what we will do and who we will become.
Let me give you an example.
I promise you,
that there's a 99% chance that Danny Anderson will never rob a bank.
Danny and Jackie, you know.
Maybe Andrew and Bo and Ruby are behind us and we're all got masks on and we're gonna go into fifth third.
Put them up, empty the vaults, you know.
We walk away with a million dollars or whatever.
Never going to happen.
Others might rob banks, not me, why?
because I never think about robbing a bank.
And if I never think about it, I'm never going to do it.
Isn't this why we say to our kids, those of us parents and some grandparents who still have your wits about you?
You guys are, anyway, there's another sermon for another day.
My mom and dad were just in town, whatever.
Isn't this why we look at our kids and we say, don't you even think about it?
Because we can see it.
We can see it happening right before our eyes.
We know they're about to do something and it's in their minds.
We first think and then we act.
And we're like, don't you even think about it?
Because that's how God has made us.
That day in the car, when that girl pulled up next to me on 135 and she gave me the number one sign.
You know, I wanted to pull up there and I wanted to hit that, I wanted to put my car in park and get out and take her finger and shove it up her nose.
Man, I was hot.
Maybe bend it back a little bit.
You know, spread up your nose.
I promise you, as God is my witness, the only thing that stopped me from rolling that window down was the thought that
I'm probably her pastor.
That thought triggered a different emotion which triggered a different action.
It's the way God has made us.
You know who's figured this out?
More than the church.
Unfortunately, church is lagging on this issue of how people actually change in the power of the thought mind.
Businesses in America.
Next year, actually this year, businesses in America will spend $656 billion on advertising.
Coca-Cola, just Coca-Cola, $5.8 billion.
And we say, well, advertising doesn't affect me.
Are you serious?
Why would companies spend that much money to put ideas in your head, images, messages, you deserve this, you look better and this, the girls will like you.
If you have this, you'll get so much respect if you buy this.
Whatever they say, it's all lives.
All lies, every last one.
The reason that they would spend that kind of money is because it works.
We think, we feel, and we go, and we charge, or we buy.
This is why God tells us in the Scripture through Solomon, one of the wisest people to ever walk this planet, Proverbs 4, verse 23, guard your heart.
Now when the Bible says heart, it's a synonym for mind and soul, and all three pieces working together will
Emotions, thoughts, guard it, guard your inner being above all else.
Why?
For it determines the course of your life.
Where's your life headed?
I don't know.
Tell me what your thoughts are.
You know, am I gonna be able to reach my goals?
I'm not sure.
Tell me what's inside your bra.
Tell me what's between your ears.
Whatever's going on inside of you will determine the course of your life.
Everything you do and everything I do comes from our inner being.
Guard it, protect it.
Make sure the right messages are getting in it.
God would say to you today, meditate on the word of God day and night.
It will lead you to your upgrade.
Some of you know who George Clooney is, many of you do.
Here's a picture of him if you don't know who he is.
Handsome fella, that he is.
Early on in his career, he was in Hollywood and he was going to audition after audition after audition.
He was getting turned down, no, no, no, no.
He got so upset.
Man, he was hurt.
He started to blame the people doing the auditions.
He started to blame the system.
Remember how it's easy to always blame the system.
Oh, it's the system.
It's the Democrats.
It's the Republicans.
It's the weather.
It's the economy.
It's so easy to blame the circumstances.
And he was getting deeper and deeper into his discouragement until one day he thought about maybe coming at things from a different perspective.
In the obstacle of the way, a fantastic book if you love to read, and this whole book is about proper perspective and thinking right by Ryan Holiday, he tells the story about Clooney.
And he says, Clooney decided to change his perspective.
He said, what if I decided to think about it this way when I go into these auditions that these guys are actually looking for someone to fill a role in their film?
I'm not looking for a job.
I'm a solution to their problem.
I'm an answer to their prayers.
And he started to think about the whole situation differently.
And he started to portray this different aura in his auditions.
Not necessarily his skills didn't really change, but he was projecting something different to them.
And he started to get one job.
after another job and the rest is history.
In the book, Holiday says this about the story.
Where the head goes, the body follows.
Perception precedes action.
Right action follows right perception or right thinking.
Is this making sense to you guys?
If we want to upgrade our lives, we first have to upgrade our thoughts.
And we must think better.
Now, I know when I tell people this, I often get this pushback because I'll be with somebody and I'll be telling them how they need to change the way they think about stuff.
And they say, man, I can't control my thoughts.
They just are what they are.
I assure you that you can.
In your notes, you can choose your thoughts.
God has given you the power to take every thought captive and bring it into obedience to Jesus Christ.
He would not have told us in Colossians chapter three verse two, to set our minds on things above, not on things on earth.
How could God tell us to focus our mind on heavenly things and not earthly things if it were not possible?
In second Corinthians chapter 12, Paul tells us this, don't go along with the pattern of this world, don't conform to the pattern of this world, instead be transformed by the renewing of your mind, Romans chapter 12 verse two.
How, why would he tell us to be transformed by renewing our thoughts if it were impossible?
It is possible.
You can choose your thoughts.
It's like working out a muscle.
Some of your muscles are not very strong right now, but if you work them out every day through meditation, you will bring your thoughts into alignment with God's will.
And then Paul takes it a step further in a letter to Philippians, chapter four verse eight.
He says these, these words.
One last thought, brothers and sisters, fix your thoughts on what is true and honorable and right and pure and lovely and admirable.
Think about what is ever is excellent or worthy of praise.
Fix your mind on good things.
He gives us a grid if your thoughts aren't true and worthy and honorable and pure and lovely.
Get it out of your brain because your mind is presenting options before your will.
You want to upgrade your life.
Take control of your thoughts.
Let me ask you a question today.
What thoughts do you need to upgrade?
Zig Ziglar called it stinking thinking.
Where is your thinking?
Stinking.
I mean, seriously.
That's, you know, I'm all alone in this life.
No, you're not.
Jesus said, I'll never leave you nor forsake you.
I can't do this.
I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.
I mean, where is your thinking off?
Because your thinking is producing the quality of your life.
Let me give you an example on your notes.
I'll give you a little tea bar there to kind of work this out on home, give you some homework, work it out with your small group.
Do sort of a thought on it.
A popular thought today is that life is not fair.
Man, you know, I don't have a body like hers and I didn't have a family like his and I didn't have opportunities like she did.
And life's not fair.
I didn't marry somebody who has money like she did or whatever, you know.
My parents, you know, got divorced.
Life's not fair.
God has terrible boss.
It doesn't job this job.
It doesn't pay well.
I mean, life isn't fair.
You look at other people, you know, man, life isn't fair.
You need to upgrade that thought to this.
Life isn't fair.
But God has the last word.
Because it's true.
Life isn't fair.
You turn the news on.
I mean, you just got to look at it.
You just look around.
Man, innocent people die.
Crazy stuff happens.
Accidents, life is not fair.
That is true.
However, God has the last word.
And that last idea, that brings hope back to the situation that this life is not all there is.
There's a next life coming after this.
See, this is working on your mental game, working on your mental game.
I love what Tommy Newberry said in his book, The 4-8 Principle.
This is a fan, he wrote a whole book on Philippians chapter four verse eight.
This is what Tommy Newberry said, by deliberately working to improve your mental game, you will steadily upgrade every area of your life.
He even used the word upgrade.
How fantastic is that?
You gotta do the work.
What about this?
What about this thought right here?
Oh, I'm just gonna fail at that.
I'm just gonna fail.
I'm gonna mess it up.
How many struggle with that?
I just mess everything up with failure.
You need to upgrade that thought to this right here.
Failure is necessary for success.
I love that.
I grew up in a family that watched Rocky.
Rocky 1, 2, 3, Rocky 4.
I don't know what happened to Rocky 5 or 6.
I didn't know this.
But man, after the Russian, there was all over after that in Rocky 4.
Man, I loved watching Rocky because it was a guy who was failing, and failing, and failing, and then he'd have a little success, and then he'd fail, and fail, and then he'd beat Apollo, and then he would fail, and then he'd beat Mr. T, and then he would fail, and fail, and then he would beat the Russian.
I mean, you can't get better movies than this for children.
This is actually essential to their development.
Show your children Rocky.
They need to understand that failure is part of success and it's good and it's okay and they're going to fail.
This is working on the mental game.
Is this making sense?
Yes or no?
Man, I want you to have an upgrade.
I want your life to go to the next level.
I want my life to go to the next level.
I want my marriage to get better, my relationship with God to get better.
I want my parenting skills to get better.
I want all of it to get better.
But it starts right here.
Every upgrade in your life and my life begins with an upgrade between our ears.
My challenge to you is to meditate, to get something in your mind and hang over it and grow over it and take it in and mull it over it and take it in and ingest it until it becomes a new way to think.
Now, a couple of years ago, actually many years ago, I had some new thoughts come into my mind that I hadn't heard before.
I was a teenager.
My thought process was if there is a God, he probably won't love me, because I'm just not a good kid.
And I wasn't.
And my mom would tell me about God, and you know, but kids don't listen to their moms.
I mean, some do.
I didn't.
But for whatever reason, I ended up going to church, and I heard from the preacher, and the preacher said, you know what, no matter what you've done, no matter where you've been, no matter how much you've sinned, no matter how bad you think you are, there's a God who loves you.
And he's willing to forgive you.
In fact, he proved it by sending his son, his very own son, his one and only son to this earth to dine across for your sin.
And I'm sitting there listening to like, no, God, if there is a God, there's no way that he would love someone like me.
I'm selfish, I'm prideful, I mean, I say terrible things, I treat people wrong, and I just want, there's no way, I'm not lovable.
But I'm sitting there that day in church, and I'm hearing this preacher talk about how God proved his love for us.
by having Jesus die for those sins and rise again.
Again, what is that?
That is an idea or a series of ideas that come into our mind.
And I heard those ideas that day and I felt God saying, I'm speaking to you.
I'm speaking to you.
It's true.
I love you.
I died for you.
And it wasn't long after that that as a 17 year old kid, I decided to respond to those ideas and reach out and faith to God and receive Christ as my savior.
And maybe that's you today.
Maybe you need to hear these ideas.
God loves you.
No matter what you've done, no matter where you've been, how much you've sinned, or how much guilt you have, or maybe you were like me, you thought, man, there's no God that would life.
There is a God.
He would not love someone like me.
Maybe that's where you're at.
And I'm here to tell you today, you're exactly the person that he loves.
And he sent Christ to die for you, to pay for those sins, to wash you and make you clean, just like he did me and many, many others.
Maybe today you reach out to Him in faith and you say, Jesus, thank you for dying on the cross from my sin.
Cleans me, wash me, make me your child.
That is the ultimate upgrade.
2 Corinthians chapter 5 verse 17 says it like this.
Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, He's a new creation.
The old is gone and the new has come.
You talk about an upgrade.
If you'd like to do that right now, if you'd like to upgrade your life and put your faith in Christ, I'm gonna say a simple prayer.
Take these words and make them your own.
Make this moment your moment of spiritual upgrade.
Will you pray with me?
Dear Jesus, I believe you died on the cross for me because you love me.
I believe you paid for my sin.
to remove the guilt, the shame, the penalty of sin.
And right now, I ask you to cleanse me, wash me, and make me your child.
I put my trust in you and what you did for me on the cross.
Thank you for your grace.
Thank you for your mercy.
And from this day forward, teach me to love you, to honor you, and to obey you.
It's in Jesus' name I pray.
And everybody said, amen, amen.
And can we give God glory?
Come on, nice and loud, amen.
If you trusted Christ, here's what I'd like you to do really quick.
We'd like to grab your phone real quick and text the word save to 65248.
We just want to get behind you and support you and let you know how you can thrive in your new walk with Christ.
So text the word save to 65248.
And after you do that, we would love to invite you to go back whatever location you're at.
In the back of the auditorium and grab one of these boxes that says saved on it inside.
There's a gift from us to you, a cup.
There's a Bible with a reading plan for you to get you started on your new journey with Christ.
So grab those on the way out.
Can we give God glory one more time, guys?
Amen.